# Setting up packages and downloading data:

    #requirements
    library(tidyverse)
    library(ggplot2)
    library(viridis)
    library(hrbrthemes)
    #reading the data in manually
    languages <- readr::read_csv('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rfordatascience/tidytuesday/master/data/2023/2023-03-21/languages.csv')

# Exploring the data set:

    ##    pldb_id             title           description            type          
    ##  Length:4303        Length:4303        Length:4303        Length:4303       
    ##  Class :character   Class :character   Class :character   Class :character  
    ##  Mode  :character   Mode  :character   Mode  :character   Mode  :character  
    ##                                                                             
    ##                                                                             
    ##                                                                             
    ##                                                                             
    ##     appeared       creators           website          domain_name       
    ##  Min.   :-2000   Length:4303        Length:4303        Length:4303       
    ##  1st Qu.: 1984   Class :character   Class :character   Class :character  
    ##  Median : 1997   Mode  :character   Mode  :character   Mode  :character  
    ##  Mean   : 1991                                                           
    ##  3rd Qu.: 2012                                                           
    ##  Max.   : 2023                                                           
    ##                                                                          
    ##  domain_name_registered  reference             isbndb          book_count     
    ##  Min.   :1990           Length:4303        Min.   :  0.000   Min.   :  0.000  
    ##  1st Qu.:2007           Class :character   1st Qu.:  0.000   1st Qu.:  0.000  
    ##  Median :2013           Mode  :character   Median :  0.000   Median :  0.000  
    ##  Mean   :2011                              Mean   :  7.706   Mean   :  2.079  
    ##  3rd Qu.:2017                              3rd Qu.:  2.000   3rd Qu.:  0.000  
    ##  Max.   :2023                              Max.   :400.000   Max.   :401.000  
    ##  NA's   :3801                              NA's   :3217                       
    ##  semantic_scholar language_rank  github_repo        github_repo_stars
    ##  Min.   : 0.000   Min.   :   0   Length:4303        Min.   :    0    
    ##  1st Qu.: 0.000   1st Qu.:1076   Class :character   1st Qu.:   29    
    ##  Median : 0.000   Median :2151   Mode  :character   Median :  194    
    ##  Mean   : 3.794   Mean   :2151                      Mean   : 2127    
    ##  3rd Qu.: 3.000   3rd Qu.:3226                      3rd Qu.: 1071    
    ##  Max.   :52.000   Max.   :4302                      Max.   :88526    
    ##  NA's   :3545                                       NA's   :3414     
    ##  github_repo_forks  github_repo_updated github_repo_subscribers
    ##  Min.   :    0.00   Min.   :2012        Min.   :   0.00        
    ##  1st Qu.:    2.25   1st Qu.:2022        1st Qu.:   4.00        
    ##  Median :   16.00   Median :2022        Median :  13.00        
    ##  Mean   :  261.29   Mean   :2021        Mean   :  62.34        
    ##  3rd Qu.:   91.50   3rd Qu.:2022        3rd Qu.:  44.00        
    ##  Max.   :23732.00   Max.   :2023        Max.   :2910.00        
    ##  NA's   :3417       NA's   :3418        NA's   :3418           
    ##  github_repo_created github_repo_description github_repo_issues
    ##  Min.   :2006        Length:4303             Min.   :   0      
    ##  1st Qu.:2013        Class :character        1st Qu.:   1      
    ##  Median :2016        Mode  :character        Median :   9      
    ##  Mean   :2016                                Mean   : 123      
    ##  3rd Qu.:2019                                3rd Qu.:  61      
    ##  Max.   :2022                                Max.   :9522      
    ##  NA's   :3425                                NA's   :3518      
    ##  github_repo_first_commit github_language    github_language_tm_scope
    ##  Min.   :1987             Length:4303        Length:4303             
    ##  1st Qu.:2012             Class :character   Class :character        
    ##  Median :2015             Mode  :character   Mode  :character        
    ##  Mean   :2015                                                        
    ##  3rd Qu.:2018                                                        
    ##  Max.   :2022                                                        
    ##  NA's   :3567                                                        
    ##  github_language_type github_language_ace_mode github_language_file_extensions
    ##  Length:4303          Length:4303              Length:4303                    
    ##  Class :character     Class :character         Class :character               
    ##  Mode  :character     Mode  :character         Mode  :character               
    ##                                                                               
    ##                                                                               
    ##                                                                               
    ##                                                                               
    ##  github_language_repos  wikipedia         wikipedia_daily_page_views
    ##  Min.   :       0      Length:4303        Min.   :   -1.0           
    ##  1st Qu.:      91      Class :character   1st Qu.:    9.0           
    ##  Median :     726      Mode  :character   Median :   24.0           
    ##  Mean   :  197135                         Mean   :  227.1           
    ##  3rd Qu.:    7900                         3rd Qu.:   99.0           
    ##  Max.   :16046489                         Max.   :13394.0           
    ##  NA's   :3833                             NA's   :2837              
    ##  wikipedia_backlinks_count wikipedia_summary  wikipedia_page_id 
    ##  Min.   :    1.0           Length:4303        Min.   :     928  
    ##  1st Qu.:   13.0           Class :character   1st Qu.:  375154  
    ##  Median :   39.0           Mode  :character   Median : 2114700  
    ##  Mean   :  318.6                              Mean   : 9167847  
    ##  3rd Qu.:  126.0                              3rd Qu.:12321223  
    ##  Max.   :34348.0                              Max.   :63063548  
    ##  NA's   :2877                                 NA's   :2893      
    ##  wikipedia_appeared wikipedia_created wikipedia_revision_count
    ##  Min.   :1830       Min.   :2001      Min.   :    1.0         
    ##  1st Qu.:1980       1st Qu.:2003      1st Qu.:   35.0         
    ##  Median :1994       Median :2005      Median :   84.0         
    ##  Mean   :1991       Mean   :2006      Mean   :  330.4         
    ##  3rd Qu.:2005       3rd Qu.:2007      3rd Qu.:  242.0         
    ##  Max.   :2019       Max.   :2020      Max.   :10104.0         
    ##  NA's   :2958       NA's   :3040      NA's   :3130            
    ##  wikipedia_related  features_has_comments features_has_semantic_indentation
    ##  Length:4303        Mode :logical         Mode :logical                    
    ##  Class :character   FALSE:3               FALSE:516                        
    ##  Mode  :character   TRUE :617             TRUE :65                         
    ##                     NA's :3683            NA's :3722                       
    ##                                                                            
    ##                                                                            
    ##                                                                            
    ##  features_has_line_comments line_comment_token last_activity  number_of_users  
    ##  Mode :logical              Length:4303        Min.   :-900   Min.   :      0  
    ##  FALSE:21                   Class :character   1st Qu.:1992   1st Qu.:      0  
    ##  TRUE :517                  Mode  :character   Median :2006   Median :     20  
    ##  NA's :3765                                    Mean   :2001   Mean   :  13771  
    ##                                                3rd Qu.:2021   3rd Qu.:    230  
    ##                                                Max.   :2023   Max.   :7179119  
    ##                                                                                
    ##  number_of_jobs     origin_community   central_package_repository_count
    ##  Min.   :     0.0   Length:4303        Min.   :0                       
    ##  1st Qu.:     0.0   Class :character   1st Qu.:0                       
    ##  Median :     0.0   Mode  :character   Median :0                       
    ##  Mean   :   422.2                      Mean   :0                       
    ##  3rd Qu.:     0.0                      3rd Qu.:0                       
    ##  Max.   :771996.0                      Max.   :0                       
    ##                                        NA's   :1482                    
    ##   file_type         is_open_source 
    ##  Length:4303        Mode :logical  
    ##  Class :character   FALSE:58       
    ##  Mode  :character   TRUE :453      
    ##                     NA's :3792     
    ##                                    
    ##                                    
    ## 

It looks like there are a lot of NAâ€™s in most of the columns. But I am
not worried about removing them since there are none in the data I want
to extract.

# Objective

After a quick skim of the data, I have decided that I am interested in
the correlation of material availability to the number of users over
time.

## Questions

1.  Are the most popular languages the ones with the most documentation
    out there?
2.  Has the methods for documenting programming languages changed over
    time?

# Creating exploratory plots with base R:

    hist(languages$book_count,
         breaks = 20,
         xlab = "Computed number of books avalable at isbndb.com",
         main = "Histogram of book per programming language." )
    abline(v = mean(languages$book_count), col='red', lwd = 3)
    legend("topright", legend = "Mean number of books", col = 'red', lwd = 3)

![image](https://github.com/valeste/valeste.github.io/blob/master/assets/img/2023-03-20-Tidy_files/figure-markdown_strict/exploratory%20plots-1.png)

    hist(languages$number_of_users,
         breaks = 20,
         xlab = "Number of users",
         main = "Histogram of the number of users per programming language." )
    abline(v = mean(languages$number_of_users), col='blue', lwd = 3)
    legend("topright", legend = "Mean number of users", col = 'blue', lwd = 3)

![image](https://github.com/valeste/valeste.github.io/blob/master/assets/img/2023-03-20-Tidy_files/figure-markdown_strict/exploratory%20plots-2.png)

Based off of these exploratory plots, itâ€™s clear that we need to do some
transformation on the continuous data since itâ€™s so skewed. I figured I
should create new columns for the number of users and book count using
lognormal transformations.

# Transforming and manipulating data:

    languages2 <- 
      languages %>% 
      mutate(log_users = log(number_of_users + 1)) %>% #lognormal transformation
      filter(log_users > 0) %>% #removing programming languages with no users
      mutate(log_books = log(book_count + 1)) %>% #lognormal transformation
      mutate(website2 = ifelse(website == github_repo, yes = NA, no = website))  %>% #making a new website column where github_repo isn't repeated
      mutate(dupes = website == github_repo) %>% #making a column to quickly navigate to the rows that have duplicate entries
      mutate(score = as.factor(as.integer(!is.na(website2)) + as.integer(!is.na(github_repo)))) %>% #creating a score column that adds up whether the programming language has online resources such as a website or GitHub repo. I decided not to include Wikipedia pages in this score since it is not likely to have much information regarding how to use the language.
      filter(appeared >= 1957) %>% #removing any programming languages from before 1957 since a quick Google search says that computer programming as coding came about in the late 1950s with the invention of FORTRAN, LISP and COBOL.
      select(title, appeared, log_users, log_books, website2, github_repo, score, dupes, book_count) %>%
      arrange(desc(log_users))

    head(languages2)

    ## # A tibble: 6 Ã— 9
    ##   title appeared log_users log_books website2 github_repo score dupes book_count
    ##   <chr>    <dbl>     <dbl>     <dbl> <chr>    <chr>       <fct> <lgl>      <dbl>
    ## 1 SQL       1974      15.8      5.21 <NA>     <NA>        0     NA           182
    ## 2 Javaâ€¦     1995      15.6      5.86 <NA>     <NA>        0     NA           351
    ## 3 HTML      1991      15.5      4.76 <NA>     <NA>        0     NA           116
    ## 4 Java      1995      15.5      6.00 <NA>     <NA>        0     NA           401
    ## 5 C++       1985      15.2      4.86 <NA>     <NA>        0     NA           128
    ## 6 C         1972      15.1      4.37 <NA>     <NA>        0     NA            78

I added in a few columns that help me evaluate the metrics I want to
use. I noticed that there were duplicate entries for 48 rows where the
website and GitHub repo values were the same thing. I want to get rid of
the website entries for those that have duplicate values and set them to
NA.

I also removed programming languages from the data set that didnâ€™t have
any users. Most of those also had NAs in the columns I wanted to use.

# Creating plot

    ggplot(languages2, aes(x = appeared, y = log_users, color = score, size = log_books)) +
      geom_point(alpha=0.5) +
      scale_size(range = c(1, 12), name="Log Book Count") +
      scale_color_viridis(discrete = TRUE , option = "C")+
      theme(legend.position="right") +
      xlab("Year Programming Language Appeared")+
      theme_ipsum()+
      ylab("Log Number of Users")

![image](https://github.com/valeste/valeste.github.io/blob/master/assets/img/2023-03-20-Tidy_files/figure-markdown_strict/explanatory%20plot-1.png)

    ggplot(languages2, aes(x = appeared, y = log_users, color = score, size = book_count)) +
      geom_point(alpha=0.5) +
      scale_size(range = c(1, 12), name="Book Count") +
      scale_color_viridis(discrete = TRUE , option = "C")+
      theme(legend.position="right") +
      xlab("Year Programming Language Appeared")+
      theme_ipsum()+
      ylab("Log Number of Users")

![image](https://github.com/valeste/valeste.github.io/blob/master/assets/img/2023-03-20-Tidy_files/figure-markdown_strict/explanatory%20plot-2.png)

Based off trends in the plot, it seems like the most popular newer
(appearing after the year 2000) languages are likely to have a website
and GitHub repo in addition to having several books on the language. The
most popular languages however have for sure the most number of books
(in the 400s).

I decided to make two plots with the size of the bubble being dependent
on either the log(book\_count) calculation or the raw count. I feel like
it is more obvious that the most popular languages have more books based
on the latter. However, that data is obviously very skewed so Iâ€™m
curious to know what is best practice. Maybe, my initial thoughts of
lognormal transformation of the data doesnâ€™t necessarily mean that I
will be better able to communicate it.
