---
layout: post
title: Daily Post
date: '2023-01-12'
categories: daily
tags: post
---
I downloaded Visual Studio Code as a means of creating new Markdown files for my lab notebook. Prior to this, I was duplicating the previous Markdown file I used, modifying it, and pushing the new file to my Lab Notebook. I was orignally going use Atom but upon re-downloading I saw that they were planning to "sunset" the platform so went with VS Code instead.  

I also went through all the containers in the recirculating seawater system at UWT to: 
-  scrub and siphon them out in preperation for new colonies that I plan to collect next week 
- relabel the containers to make a consistent ID system
- check if there were any live tunicates from before the Winter Break. 
    - There was only one live tunicate from the 12/12/23 collection date. This colony was alive, not adhered to the slide, ampullae were retrated, had a relatively low blood circulation, but no visible parasites. Colony was placed in a humidity chamber for the day and successfully adhered to the slide. 
    - There were also 24 oozoids adhered to three different slides. These oozoids were cleaned with a soft paint brush and transferred to an isolated oozoid tank to be kept in stagnant water.

Today I also quickly created a Google Map that documents the collection sites for _Botryllus schlosseri_. I have invited our collaborators at UCD to also update it and figure it will be useful for communication purposes down the road. 
<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/d/embed?mid=1eR60Z1Da5eniGU9MuhU01yVwgPIw4vo&hl=en&ehbc=2E312F" width="640" height="480"></iframe>